<h1>How to Write a Literature Review</h1>
A literature review is an analysis or evaluation of a piece of writing, such as books and scholarly articles. It highlights key findings, concepts, and changes on a particular topic. A literature review is included in a dissertation to discuss related studies and credit the researchers. The purpose of writing a lit review is to present an understanding of existing research to the topic of your paper. It also helps you to identify gaps, open questions, and conflict in previous studies. You can also be instructed to write a literature review as a standalone paper. Many students have difficulties in planning and structuring their literature review. In case you do not know how to write a standalone review assignment, you can learn it in four simple steps. Below is a guide on writing a literature review:
<h2>1)	Choose a Topic<h/2>
Before you search for literature, you need to come up with a topic to review. A simple way of narrowing down topic choices is brainstorm for ideas in your field of study. Think of a question that you can source answers from existing publications. From the question, you can create a topic that you can discuss at ease and one that is current and relevant to your course. 
<h2>2)	Search for Literature<h/2>
First, go through your instructor’s requirements.Understand what number and type sources are required. Also, find out whether it is a summary or critique of the source for information. Once you know all the requirements, you can proceed to search for literature sources. You will need a list of keywords related to your topic as a search guide for publications on the internet. Only select sources that are credible and have relevant information and theories. 
<h2>3)	Planning the Structure<h/2>
Having an outline will give you writing ideas and help you organize your thoughts. The format to use is an introduction, main body, and conclusion just like any other academic text. You will organize your review, depending on the theme and length required. Common literature review writing structures include chronology (time), theme, pattern, method, and theory. If you need help, visit EduBirdiefor professional assistance with your literature review.
<h2>4)	Writing Your Literature Review<h/2>
With a clear outline and structure for your paper, you can start writing. Your introduction discusses the topics of background information, relevance, your objectives, and the timeline of literature you will review. The body is made of subsections detailing your analysis, critique, or opinion on the literature source. Each section should have a topic sentence, evidence-based connections, and interpretations. Try interpreting the information in your own words then discuss the strength and weaknesses of the source. Have a clear conclusion that summaries the connection of your topic, introduction, and discussions in the body. 
<h2>Conclusion<h/2>
To write a good literature review, make sure you have credible and relevant sources. Be keen to follow your instructor’s requirements when planning and writing the paper. Moreover, do not be afraid to seek assistance with your literature review.
